DEVX-380: Schema Registry tutorial (#920)
confluentinc/schema-registry: docs/schema_registry_tutorial.rst

Within the application, Java producers that are serializing data as Avro set two main configurations parameters:

* Avro serializer for the Kafka value (or Kafka key)
* URL to the |sr-long|

Then the producer can write records where the Kafka value is of `Payment` class.
For example:

.. sourcecode:: java

   import io.confluent.kafka.serializers.KafkaAvroSerializer;
   import io.confluent.kafka.serializers.AbstractKafkaAvroSerDeConfig;

   ...
   props.put(ProducerConfig.VALUE_SERIALIZER_CLASS_CONFIG, KafkaAvroSerializer.class);
   props.put(AbstractKafkaAvroSerDeConfig.SCHEMA_REGISTRY_URL_CONFIG, schemaRegistryUrl);
   ...

   ...
   KafkaProducer<String, Payment> producer = new KafkaProducer<String, Payment>(props));
   final Payment payment = new Payment(orderId, 1000.00d);
   final ProducerRecord<String, Payment> record = new ProducerRecord<String, Payment>(TOPIC, payment.getId().toString(), payment);
   producer.send(record);
   ...

For a full Java producer example, refer to `the producer example <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/5.0.0-post/clients/avro/src/main/java/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/ProducerExample.java>`_.

Java Consumers

> ^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Author: @cricket007 I appreciate your review.  I made some changes based on your feedback.

Note:

(a) While I do think it's worth to mention generic vs specific, but the tutorial intentionally focuses on Specific

(b) The details of GenericRecord are important but not for a tutorial that focuses on Specific.  I have filed a separate internal jira to add to the docs your note about GenericRecord

Reviewer: Thanks! Sorry for all the duplicate comments! Github was having issues last night, and I wasn't seeing them being submitted.

Since this tutorial focuses on Specific, it might help to mention a bit more about the plugin. Specifically, `mvn compile` can be used to generate the classes, which will be written into the `target/generated-sources` folder. Otherwise, it doesn't seem immediately clear where the Kafka value object type comes from. 

Also, I'm a fan of AVDL over AVSC, but maybe that's duplicating too much information from the Avro docs, and that decision is up to the implementor.

Reviewer: > Leaving as AVSC. The goal of this tutorial is to show one path that is easiest to understand

Understood. I'll PR into the examples repo at some time to iterate the alternatives w.r.t. the avro-plugin.

Author: Sounds great!

Similar to how APIs evolve and need to be compatible for all applications that rely on old and new versions of the API, schemas also evolve and likewise need to be compatible for all applications that rely on old and new versions of the schema.
This schema evolution is a natural behavior of how applications and data develop over time.

|sr-long| allows for schema evolution and provides compatibility checks to ensure that the contract between producers and consumers is not broken.
This is especially important in Kafka because producers and consumers are decoupled applications that are sometimes developed by different teams.
Compatibility checks on schemas allow producers and consumers to update independently and evolve their schemas independently, with assurances that they can read new and legacy data.

These are the types of `compatibility types <https://docs.confluent.io/current/avro.html#data-serialization-and-evolution>`_:

* ``FORWARD``: consumers using older schemas can read data written by producers using newer schemas
* ``BACKWARD``: consumers using newer schemas can read data written by producers using older schemas
* ``FULL``: forward and backward compatible

> * ``NONE``: schema compatibility checks disabled

Reviewer: Should the transitive compatibility levels be mentioned? 

https://github.com/confluentinc/schema-registry/blob/master/client/src/main/java/io/confluent/kafka/schemaregistry/avro/AvroCompatibilityLevel.java#L50-L55

Author: Ack.

Passing Compatibility Checks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

|sr| checks schema compatibility as they evolve to keep the producer-consumer contract.
Without |sr| checking compatibility, your applications could break on schema changes.

To maintain backward compatibility, a new schema must assume default values for the new fields if they are not provided.
Therefore, there must be a default value for `region`.
Consider an updated `Payment2b schema <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/DEVX-380/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2b.avsc>`_:

.. sourcecode:: json

   $ cat src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2b.avsc
   {"namespace": "io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro",
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Payment",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "amount", "type": "double"},
        {"name": "region", "type": "string", "default": ""}
    ]
   }

Update the `pom.xml <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/5.0.0-post/clients/avro/pom.xml>`_ to refer to `Payment2b.avsc` instead of `Payment2a.avsc`.

> Re-run the compatibility check and verify that it fails:

Reviewer: Typo: The new compatibility check will succeed.

> .. _schema_registry_tutorial:

Reviewer 2: global: revise content to avoid using `we` - in favor of the second person `you`. (see [Style Guide](https://confluentinc.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/DOC/pages/161743785/Style+Guide+for+Confluent+Documentation#StyleGuideforConfluentDocumentation-VoiceandTone))

Confluent Schema Registry Tutorial
==================================

This tutorial provides an example on how to use |sr-long|.

**Contents**

> .. contents::

Reviewer 3: Nowadays, we're removing these `.. contents::` blocks, because of the cool, new floating in-page nav thingie.

Author: Ok, removed

It walks through the steps to enable client applications to read and write Avro data with compatibility checks as schemas evolve.

Benefits
^^^^^^^^

Kafka producers write data to Kafka topics and Kafka consumers read data from Kafka topics.
There is an implicit "contract" that producers write data with a schema that can be read by consumers, even as producers and consumers evolve their schemas.

It is useful to think about schemas as APIs.
It is critical that applications built on top of those APIs continue to work even if the APIs have changed.
Similarly, schema evolution requires compatibility checks to ensure that the producer-consumer contract is not broken. 
This is where |sr-long| helps: it provides centralized schema management and compatibility checks as schemas evolve.

For a more in-depth understanding of the benefits of Avro and |sr|, please refer to the following resources:

* `Why Avro For Kafka Data <https://www.confluent.io/blog/avro-kafka-data/>`_
* `Yes, Virginia, You Really Do Need a Schema Registry <https://www.confluent.io/blog/schema-registry-kafka-stream-processing-yes-virginia-you-really-need-one/>`_

> Target Audience

Reviewer 2: i'd move this content to the bottom, near next steps/further reading.

> Target Audience

Author: Those blogs go more in-depth on benefits of SR, so I think they fit right into the flow.

@joel-hamill : my concern in moving it to the next steps is that as a reader, I expect next steps to be actionable, i.e., technical things to do (download code, run scripts, spin up service, etc).  Not to read blogs about value prop.

So I'd like to leave it exactly where it is ;)

> Target Audience

Reviewer 2: you can make the call. here are my thoughts on my suggestion:
- the purpose of this topic is have people go through this tutorial - do we want to prominently lead people away in the first paragraphs?
- how do people know they want more in-depth than this tutorial, until they have completed this tutorial?

> Target Audience

Author: Ack!  Moving it to Next Steps

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The target audience is a developer writing Kafka streaming applications, who wants to build a robust application leveraging Avro data and |sr-long|.

> This tutorial is not meant to cover the operational aspects of running the |sr| service. For production deployments of |sr-long|, please refer to :ref:`Schema Registry Operations<schemaregistry_operations>`.

Reviewer 3: In general, we don't use "please" in docs -- we're pretty imperative. :)

Before You Begin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before proceeding with this tutorial

> 

Reviewer 2: the alignment is off in this section 
![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/11722533/47248086-d5dad180-d3bc-11e8-9be6-0580eb72c27e.png)

> 1. Verify have installed on your local machine:

Reviewer 3: Use the `#.` syntax for numbered lists.

> 1. Verify have installed on your local machine:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Verify have installed on your local machine:
```

> * Java 1.8 to run |cp|

Reviewer 3: Indent to line up with "Verify..."

> * Java 1.8 to run |cp|

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Java 1.8 to run |cp|
```

> * Maven to compile the client Java code

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Maven to compile the client Java code
```

> * `jq` tool to make output from SR REST endpoint pretty

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * `jq` tool to make output from SR REST endpoint pretty
```

> 2. Use the :ref:`quickstart` to bring up |cp|. With a single-line command, you can have running on your local machine a basic Kafka cluster with |sr-long| and other services.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#. Use the :ref:`quickstart` to bring up |cp|. With a single-line command, you can have running on your local machine a basic Kafka cluster with |sr-long| and other services.
```

.. sourcecode:: bash

>    $ confluent start

Reviewer 2: please remove `$` from the commands.

Author: @joel-hamill : if I remove `$` from commands, how do we distinguish command from the output of issuing the command?

   This CLI is intended for development only, not for production
   https://docs.confluent.io/current/cli/index.html

   Starting zookeeper
   zookeeper is [UP]
   Starting kafka
   kafka is [UP]
   Starting schema-registry
   schema-registry is [UP]
   Starting kafka-rest
   kafka-rest is [UP]
   Starting connect
   connect is [UP]
   Starting ksql-server
   ksql-server is [UP]
   Starting control-center
   control-center is [UP]

> 3. Clone the |cp| `examples` repo in GitHub and work in the `clients/avro/` subdirectory.

Reviewer 3: etc.

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ git clone https://github.com/confluentinc/examples.git
   $ cd examples/clients/avro

.. _schema_registry_tutorial_definition:

> Terminology Levelset

Author: Is that a reason to remove it?

> Terminology Levelset

Reviewer 4: I didn't know it either. When i looked it up it looks as it should be two words

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> First let us levelset on terminology: what is a `schema` versus a `topic` versus a `subject`.

Reviewer 3: "FIrst, let's ..."

A Kafka topic contains messages, and each message is a key-value pair.
Either the message key or the message value, or both, can be independently serialized as Avro.
The Kafka topic name is independent of the schema name.
When a producer writes a message to a Kafka topic, it can serialize the message key or message value as Avro (or both).
By default, the subject that is registered in |sr| is derived from the Kafka topic name.

As a practical example, let's say a retail business is streaming transactions in a Kafka topic called `transactions`.
A producer is writing data with a schema `Payment` to that Kafka topic.

> If the producer is serializing the message value as Avro, |sr| has a subject called `transactions-value`.

Reviewer 3: Need double-ticks for literals: ``transactions-value``

Reviewer: Same for \`\`transactions-key\`\` below

> If the producer is also serializing the message key as Avro, |sr| would have a subject called `transactions-key`, but for simplicity, in this tutorial we consider only about the message value.

Reviewer 3: "but for simplicity, we're only concerned with the message value"

> If the producer is also serializing the message key as Avro, |sr| would have a subject called `transactions-key`, but for simplicity, in this tutorial we consider only about the message value.

Author: Cool beta feature!

The |sr| subject `transactions-value` has at least one schema called `Payment`.

> The |sr| subject `transactions-value` defines the scope in which schemas for the topic transactions can evolve and |sr| does compatibility checking within this scope.

Reviewer 3: Add a comma: "the topic transactions can evolve, and ..."

If developers evolve the schema `Payment` and produce new messages to the topic `transactions`, |sr| checks that those newly evolved schemas are compatible with older schemas in the subject `transactions-value` and adds those new schemas to the subject.

.. _schema_registry_tutorial_definition:

Schema Definition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first thing developers need to do is agree on a basic schema for data.

> Client applications are forming a contract that producers will write data in a compatible schema and consumers will be able to read that data.

Reviewer 3: "Client applications form a contract"

> Of course, applications can use many schemas for many topics, but in this tutorial we will look at one.

Reviewer 3: Suggest removing "of course".

Consider the `original Payment schema <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/DEVX-380/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment.avsc>`_:

.. sourcecode:: json

   $ cat src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment.avsc
   [
   {"namespace": "io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro",
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Payment",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "amount", "type": "double"}
    ]
   }
   ]

Let's break down what this schema defines

> * `namespace`: a fully qualified name that avoids naming conflicts

Reviewer 3: double back-ticks: \`\`namespace\`\`

* `type`: Avro data type, one of `record`, `enum, `union`, `array`, `map`, `fixed`
* `name`: unique schema name in this namespace
* `fields`: one or more simple or complex data types for a `record`

> ** the first field in this record is called `id`, and it is of type `string`.

Reviewer 2: the formatting is off

* `Kafka Streams <https://docs.confluent.io/current/streams/developer-guide/datatypes.html#avro>`_
* `Kafka Connect <https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/docs/connect.html#using-kafka-connect-with-sr>`_
* `Confluent REST Proxy <https://docs.confluent.io/current/kafka-rest/docs/api.html#post--topics-(string-topic_name)-partitions-(int-partition_id)>`_
* `Non-Java clients based on librdkafka <https://docs.confluent.io/current/clients/index.html>`_ , including Confluent Python, Confluent Go, Confluent DotNet

Centralized Schema Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Schemas in Schema Registry
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By this point, you have producers serializing Avro data and consuemrs deserializing Avro data, and writing schemas to |sr-long|.
You can view subjects and associated schemas via the REST endpoint in |sr|.

First, view all the subjects registered in |sr| (assuming |sr| is running on the local machine listening on port 8081):

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl --silent -X GET http://localhost:8081/subjects/ | jq .  
   [
     "transactions-value"
   ]

> In our example, the Kafka topic `transaction` has messages whose value, i.e., payload, is Avro.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this example, the Kafka topic ``transaction`` has messages whose value, or payload, is in  Avro format.
```

View the associated subject `transactions-value` in |sr|:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl --silent -X GET http://localhost:8081/subjects/transactions-value/versions/latest | jq .
   {
     "subject": "transactions-value",
     "version": 1,
     "id": 1,
     "schema": "{\"type\":\"record\",\"name\":\"Payment\",\"namespace\":\"io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro\",\"fields\":[{\"name\":\"id\",\"type\":\"string\"},{\"name\":\"amount\",\"type\":\"double\"}]}"
   }

Let's break down what this version of the schema defines

> * `subject`: the scope in which schemas for the messages in the topic `transaction` can evolve

Author: Great catch!

* `version`: the schema version for this subject, which starts at 1 for each subject
* `id`: the globally unique schema version id, unique across all schemas in all subjects
* `schema`: the structure that defines the schema format

The schema is identical to the :ref:`schema file defined for Java client applications<schema_registry_tutorial_definition>`.

Based on the schema id, you can also retrieve the associated schema by querying |sr| REST endpoint:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl --silent -X GET http://localhost:8081/schemas/ids/1 | jq .
   {
     "schema": "{\"type\":\"record\",\"name\":\"Payment\",\"namespace\":\"io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro\",\"fields\":[{\"name\":\"id\",\"type\":\"string\"},{\"name\":\"amount\",\"type\":\"double\"}]}"
   }

If you are using |c3|, you can view the topic schema easily from the UI:

.. figure:: c3-schema-transactions.png
    :align: center

> Schema Ids in Messages

Reviewer 2: `Schema IDs...`

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Integration with |sr-long| means that Kafka messages do not need to be written with the entire Avro schema.
Instead, Kafka messages are written with the schema _id_.

> The producers writing the messages and the consumers reading the messages must be using the same |sr| to get the same understanding of mapping between a schema and schema id.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The producers writing the messages and the consumers reading the messages must be using the same |sr| to get the same mapping between a schema and schema id.
```

In this example, a producer sends the new schema for `Payments` to |sr|.
|sr| registers this schema `Payments` to the subject `transactions-value`, and returns the schema id of `1` to the producer.

> The producer caches this schema to schema id mapping for subsequent message writes, so it only contacts |sr| on first schema write.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The producer caches this schema-to-schema id mapping for subsequent message writes, so it only contacts |sr| on the first schema write.
```

When a consumer reads this data, it sees the Avro schema id of `1` and sends a schema request to |sr|.
|sr| retrieves the schema associated to schema id `1`, and returns the schema to the consumer.

> The consumer caches this schema to schema id mapping for subsequent message reads, so it only contacts |sr| on first schema id read.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The consumer caches this schema-to-schema id mapping for subsequent message reads, so it only contacts |sr| on first schema id read.
```

Auto Schema Registration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Additionally, by default, client applications automatically register new schemas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
By default, client applications automatically register new schemas.
```

If they produce new messages to a new topic, then they will automatically try to register new schemas.

> This is very convenient in development environments.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is very convenient in development environments, but
```

> In production, we recommend that client applications do not automatically register new schemas.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in production environments,, we recommend that client applications do not automatically register new schemas.
```

> They can be done outside the client application to provide control over when schemas are registered with |sr-long| and how they evolve.

Reviewer 5: They?

> They can be done outside the client application to provide control over when schemas are registered with |sr-long| and how they evolve.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Schema updates can be done outside of the client application to provide control over when schemas are registered with |sr-long| and how they evolve.
```

Within the application, disable automatic schema registration by setting the configuration parameter `auto.register.schemas=false`, as shown in the examples below.

.. sourcecode:: java

   props.put(AbstractKafkaAvroSerDeConfig.AUTO_REGISTER_SCHEMAS, false);

To manually register the schema outside of the application, send the schema to |sr| and associate it with a subject, in this case `transactions-value`.  It returns a schema id of `1`.

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.schemaregistry.v1+json" --data '{"schema": "{\"type\":\"record\",\"name\":\"Payment\",\"namespace\":\"io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro\",\"fields\":[{\"name\":\"id\",\"type\":\"string\"},{\"name\":\"amount\",\"type\":\"double\"}]}"}' http://localhost:8081/subjects/transactions-value/versions
   {"id":1}

Schema Evolution and Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Changing Schemas
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Up till now, you have seen the benefit of |sr-long| as being centralized schema management that enables client applications to register and retrieve globally unique schema ids.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Until now, you have seen the benefit of |sr-long| as being centralized schema management that enables client applications to register and retrieve globally unique schema ids.
```

The main value, however, is in enabling schema evolution.
Similar to how APIs evolve and need to be compatible for all applications that rely on old and new versions of the API, schemas also evolve and likewise need to be compatible for all applications that rely on old and new versions of the schema.
This schema evolution is a natural behavior of how applications and data develop over time.

|sr-long| allows for schema evolution and provides compatibility checks to ensure that the contract between producers and consumers is not broken.

> This is especially important in Kafka in which producers and consumers are decoupled applications, and organizational totally different teams.

Reviewer 5: -totally

> This is especially important in Kafka in which producers and consumers are decoupled applications, and organizational totally different teams.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This is especially important in Kafka, because producers and consumers are decoupled applications that are often developed by teams in different organizations.
```

Compatibility checks allow producers and consumers to update independently and evolve their schemas independently, with assurances that they can read new and legacy data.

> The types of `compatibility <https://docs.confluent.io/current/avro.html#data-serialization-and-evolution>`_:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
These are the types of `compatibility <https://docs.confluent.io/current/avro.html#data-serialization-and-evolution>`_:
```

* `Forward`: consumers can still read data written by producers using newer schemas
* `Backward`: upgraded consumers can still read data written by producers using older schemas
* `Full`: forward and backward compatible
* `None`: compatibility checks disabled

By default, |sr| is configured for backward compatibility.
You can change this globally or per subject, but for the remainder of this tutorial, we will leave the default compatibility level to `backward`.

Failing Compatibility Checks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> In our example of the Payment schema, let's say now some applications are sending additional information for each payment, e.g., a field `region` that represents the place of sale.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the Payment schema example, let's say now some applications are sending additional information for each payment, for example, a field ``region`` that represents the place of sale.
```

Consider the `Payment2a schema <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/DEVX-380/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2a.avsc>`_:

.. sourcecode:: json

   $ cat src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2a.avsc
   [
   {"namespace": "io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro",
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Payment",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "amount", "type": "double"},
        {"name": "region", "type": "string"}
    ]
   }
   ]

Before proceeding, think about whether this schema is backward compatible.
Specifically, ask yourself whether a consumer can use this schema to read data written by producers using the older schema without the `region` field?
The answer is no.
Consumers will fail reading data with the older schema, because the older schema does not have the `region` field, so it is not backward compatible.

> Confluent provides a `Schema Registry Maven Plugin <https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/docs/maven-plugin.html#sr-maven-plugin>`_ with which you can check compatibility in development.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Confluent provides a `Schema Registry Maven Plugin <https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/docs/maven-plugin.html#sr-maven-plugin>`_, which you can use to check compatibility in development.
```

Our sample `pom.xml <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/5.0.0-post/clients/avro/pom.xml#L84-L99>`_ uses this plugin to enable compatibility checks.

.. sourcecode:: xml

      <plugin>
          <groupId>io.confluent</groupId>
          <artifactId>kafka-schema-registry-maven-plugin</artifactId>
          <version>5.0.0</version>
          <configuration>
              <schemaRegistryUrls>
                  <param>http://localhost:8081</param>
              </schemaRegistryUrls>
              <subjects>
                  <transactions-value>src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2a.avsc</transactions-value>
              </subjects>
          </configuration>
          <goals>
              <goal>test-compatibility</goal>
          </goals>
      </plugin>

It is currently configured to check compatibility of the new `Payment2a` schema for the `transactions-value` subject in |sr|.
Run the compatibility check and verify that it fails:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ mvn io.confluent:kafka-schema-registry-maven-plugin:5.0.0:test-compatibility

>    ....

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ...
```

>    [ERROR] Schema /Users/yeva/git/examples/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2a.avsc is not compatible with subject(transactions-value)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   [ERROR] Schema examples/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2a.avsc is not compatible with subject(transactions-value)
```

>    ....

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ...
```

> There is alternative way to manually try to register the schema to |sr|, which is useful for non-Java clients.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
There is an alternative way to manually try to register the schema to |sr|, which is useful for non-Java clients.
```

> There is alternative way to manually try to register the schema to |sr|, which is useful for non-Java clients.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There's another way to register the schema manually to |sr|, which is useful for non-Java clients.
```

You can try registering the new schema `Payment2a` directly, but |sr| rejects it, with an error message that it is incompatible.

.. sourcecode:: bash

> 

Reviewer 5: Might want to add a note (somewhere) about escaping JSON in JSON..

Author: Good point

Without |sr| checking compatibility, your applications could break on schema changes.

To maintain backward compatibility, a new schema must assume default values for the new fields if they are not provided.
Therefore, there must be a default value for `region`.
Consider an updated `Payment2b schema <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/DEVX-380/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2b.avsc>`_:

.. sourcecode:: json

   $ cat src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2b.avsc
   [
   {"namespace": "io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro",
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Payment",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "amount", "type": "double"},
        {"name": "region", "type": "string", "default": ""}
    ]
   }
   ]

Update the `pom.xml <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/5.0.0-post/clients/avro/pom.xml>`_ to refer to `Payment2b.avsc` instead of `Payment2a.avsc`.
Re-run the compatibility check and verify that it fails:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ mvn io.confluent:kafka-schema-registry-maven-plugin:5.0.0:test-compatibility
   ....

>    [INFO] Schema /Users/yeva/git/examples/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2b.avsc is compatible with subject(transactions-value)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
   [INFO] Schema examples/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment2b.avsc is compatible with subject(transactions-value)
```

|sr-long| helps ensure that this contract is met with compatibility checks.

It is useful to think about schemas as APIs.
Applications depend on APIs and expect any changes made to APIs are still compatible and applications can still run.
Similarly, streaming applications depend on schemas and expect any changes made to schemas are still compatible and they can still run.
Schema evolution requires compatibility checks to ensure that the producer-consumer contract is not broken. 
This is where |sr-long| helps: it provides centralized schema management and compatibility checks as schemas evolve.

Target Audience
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The target audience is a developer writing Kafka streaming applications, who wants to build a robust application leveraging Avro data and |sr-long|.

This tutorial is not meant to cover the operational aspects of running the |sr| service. For production deployments of |sr-long|, refer to :ref:`Schema Registry Operations<schemaregistry_operations>`.

Before You Begin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before proceeding with this tutorial

#. Verify have installed on your local machine:

>    * Java 1.8 to run |cp|

Author: @mjsax Java 1.9 and 1.10 are not currently supported in Confluent Platform

   * ``jq`` tool to nicely format the results from querying the |sr| REST endpoint

#. Use the :ref:`quickstart` to bring up |cp|. With a single-line command, you can have running on your local machine a basic Kafka cluster with |sr-long| and other services.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

      $ confluent start
   
      This CLI is intended for development only, not for production
      https://docs.confluent.io/current/cli/index.html
   
      Starting zookeeper
      zookeeper is [UP]
      Starting kafka
      kafka is [UP]
      Starting schema-registry
      schema-registry is [UP]
      Starting kafka-rest
      kafka-rest is [UP]
      Starting connect
      connect is [UP]
      Starting ksql-server
      ksql-server is [UP]
      Starting control-center
      control-center is [UP]

#. Clone the |cp| `examples` repo in GitHub and work in the `clients/avro/` subdirectory.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

      $ git clone https://github.com/confluentinc/examples.git
      $ cd examples/clients/avro
   

.. _schema_registry_tutorial_definition:

Terminology
^^^^^^^^^^^

First let us levelset on terminology: what is a `topic` versus a `schema` versus a `subject`.

> A Kafka `topic` contains messages, and each message is a key-value pair.

Author: Nah, I think it belongs here.

Either the message key or the message value, or both, can be serialized as Avro.
A `schema` defines the structure of the Avro data format.

> The Kafka topic name can be independent of the schema name.

Reviewer: This depends on the SubjectNameStategy, though, which wasn't mentioned in this PR. If assuming TopicNameStragegy, then `is`.

Client Applications Writing Avro
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Maven
^^^^^

This tutorial uses Maven to configure the project and dependencies.
Java applications that have Kafka producers or consumers using Avro require ``pom.xml`` files to include, among other things:

* Confluent Maven repository and Avro dependencies to serialize data as Avro, including ``org.apache.avro.avro`` and ``io.confluent.kafka-avro-serializer``
* Confluent Maven plugin repository and Avro plugin ``avro-maven-plugin`` to generate Java class files from the source schema

For a full pom.xml example, refer to this `pom.xml <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/5.0.0-post/clients/avro/pom.xml>`_.

Configuring Avro
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Apache Kafka applications using Avro data and |sr-long| need to specify at least two configuration parameters:

* Avro serializer or deserializer
* URL to the |sr-long|

There are two basic types of Avro records that your application can use: a specific code-generated class or a generic record.

> The examples below demonstrate how to use the specific `Payment` class, because using the specific classes are easier to work with.

Reviewer: `classes` (plural) `are easier`

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ mvn clean compile package
   $ mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro.ConsumerExample

You should see:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   ...
   offset = 0, key = id0, value = {"id": "id0", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 1, key = id1, value = {"id": "id1", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 2, key = id2, value = {"id": "id2", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 3, key = id3, value = {"id": "id3", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 4, key = id4, value = {"id": "id4", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 5, key = id5, value = {"id": "id5", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 6, key = id6, value = {"id": "id6", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 7, key = id7, value = {"id": "id7", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 8, key = id8, value = {"id": "id8", "amount": 1000.0}
   offset = 9, key = id9, value = {"id": "id9", "amount": 1000.0}
   ...

Hit ``Ctrl-C`` to stop.

Other Kafka Clients
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The objective of this tutorial is to learn about Avro and |sr| centralized schema management and compatibility checks.
To keep examples simple, this tutorial focuses on Java producers and consumers, but other Kafka clients work in similar ways.

> For examples of other Kafka clients interoperating with Avro and |sr|:

Reviewer 6: nit: `For examples of other Kafka clients interoperating with Avro and Schema Registry [see]:` ?

* `KSQL <https://docs.confluent.io/current/ksql/docs/installation/server-config/avro-schema.html#configuring-avro-and-sr-for-ksql>`_
* `Kafka Streams <https://docs.confluent.io/current/streams/developer-guide/datatypes.html#avro>`_
* `Kafka Connect <https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/docs/connect.html#using-kafka-connect-with-sr>`_
* `Confluent REST Proxy <https://docs.confluent.io/current/kafka-rest/docs/api.html#post--topics-(string-topic_name)-partitions-(int-partition_id)>`_
* `Non-Java clients based on librdkafka <https://docs.confluent.io/current/clients/index.html>`_ , including Confluent Python, Confluent Go, Confluent DotNet

Centralized Schema Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Schemas in Schema Registry
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

At this point, you have producers serializing Avro data and consumers deserializing Avro data.
The producers are registering schemas and consumers are retrieving schemas.

> You can view subjects and associated schemas via the REST endpoint in |sr|.

Reviewer 6: Connection of this sentence to the first two is missing?

View all the subjects registered in |sr| (assuming |sr| is running on the local machine listening on port 8081):

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl --silent -X GET http://localhost:8081/subjects/ | jq .  
   [
     "transactions-value"
   ]

> In this example, the Kafka topic `transactions` has messages whose value, i.e., payload, is Avro.

Reviewer 6: nit `is in Avro format`

View the associated subject `transactions-value` in |sr|:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl --silent -X GET http://localhost:8081/subjects/transactions-value/versions/latest | jq .
   {
     "subject": "transactions-value",
     "version": 1,
     "id": 1,
     "schema": "{\"type\":\"record\",\"name\":\"Payment\",\"namespace\":\"io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro\",\"fields\":[{\"name\":\"id\",\"type\":\"string\"},{\"name\":\"amount\",\"type\":\"double\"}]}"
   }

> Let's break down what this version of the schema defines

Reviewer 6: nit: add `:` or `.` at the end

* `subject`: the scope in which schemas for the messages in the topic `transactions` can evolve
* `version`: the schema version for this subject, which starts at 1 for each subject
* `id`: the globally unique schema version id, unique across all schemas in all subjects
* `schema`: the structure that defines the schema format

The schema is identical to the :ref:`schema file defined for Java client applications<schema_registry_tutorial_definition>`.
Notice in the output above, the schema is escaped JSON, i.e., the double quotes are preceded with backslashes.

Based on the schema id, you can also retrieve the associated schema by querying |sr| REST endpoint:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl --silent -X GET http://localhost:8081/schemas/ids/1 | jq .
   {
     "schema": "{\"type\":\"record\",\"name\":\"Payment\",\"namespace\":\"io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro\",\"fields\":[{\"name\":\"id\",\"type\":\"string\"},{\"name\":\"amount\",\"type\":\"double\"}]}"
   }

If you are using |c3|, you can view the topic schema easily from the UI:

.. figure:: c3-schema-transactions.png
    :align: center

Schema IDs in Messages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Integration with |sr-long| means that Kafka messages do not need to be written with the entire Avro schema.

Reviewer 6: nit: `with the entire Avro schema [encoded in the message itself].`

Instead, Kafka messages are written with the schema id.
The producers writing the messages and the consumers reading the messages must be using the same |sr| to get the same mapping between a schema and schema id.

In this example, a producer sends the new schema for `Payments` to |sr|.
|sr| registers this schema `Payments` to the subject `transactions-value`, and returns the schema id of `1` to the producer.
The producer caches this mapping between the schema and schema id for subsequent message writes, so it only contacts |sr| on the first schema write.
When a consumer reads this data, it sees the Avro schema id of `1` and sends a schema request to |sr|.

> |sr| retrieves the schema associated to schema id `1`, and returns the schema to the consumer.

Reviewer 6: `retrieves` ? The schema is stored in the registry, so it does not need to "retrieve" it IMHO ?

Maybe "looks up the schema" ?

The consumer caches this mapping between the schema and schema id for subsequent message reads, so it only contacts |sr| the on first schema id read.

Auto Schema Registration
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

By default, client applications automatically register new schemas.
If they produce new messages to a new topic, then they will automatically try to register new schemas.
This is very convenient in development environments, but in production environments we recommend that client applications do not automatically register new schemas.

> Register schemas outside of the client application to control when schemas are registered with |sr-long| and how they evolve.

Reviewer 6: `Instead, you should register`?

> Within the application, disable automatic schema registration by setting the configuration parameter `auto.register.schemas=false`, as shown in the examples below.

Reviewer 6: `Within the application, [you can] disable automatic...` ?

.. sourcecode:: java

   props.put(AbstractKafkaAvroSerDeConfig.AUTO_REGISTER_SCHEMAS, false);

> To manually register the schema outside of the application, send the schema to |sr| and associate it with a subject, in this case `transactions-value`.  It returns a schema id of `1`.

Reviewer 6: `the schema` -> `a schema` ?

It's unclear if the subject must be `transaction-value` or if user could pick any name?

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/vnd.schemaregistry.v1+json" --data '{"schema": "{\"type\":\"record\",\"name\":\"Payment\",\"namespace\":\"io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro\",\"fields\":[{\"name\":\"id\",\"type\":\"string\"},{\"name\":\"amount\",\"type\":\"double\"}]}"}' http://localhost:8081/subjects/transactions-value/versions
   {"id":1}

Schema Evolution and Compatibility
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Changing Schemas
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

So far in this tutorial, you have seen the benefit of |sr-long| as being centralized schema management that enables client applications to register and retrieve globally unique schema ids.
The main value of |sr|, however, is in enabling schema evolution.

> Similar to how APIs evolve and need to be compatible for all applications that rely on old and new versions of the API, schemas also evolve and likewise need to be compatible for all applications that rely on old and new versions of the schema.

Reviewer 6: nit: `... of the schema.` -> `... of a schema.` ?

Author: Ack

This schema evolution is a natural behavior of how applications and data develop over time.

|sr-long| allows for schema evolution and provides compatibility checks to ensure that the contract between producers and consumers is not broken.
This is especially important in Kafka because producers and consumers are decoupled applications that are sometimes developed by different teams.
Compatibility checks on schemas allow producers and consumers to update independently and evolve their schemas independently, with assurances that they can read new and legacy data.
|sr| can check compatibility of a new schema against just the latest registered schema, or if configured as transitive then it checks against all previously registered schemas, not just the latest one.

These are the types of `compatibility types <https://docs.confluent.io/current/schema-registry/docs/config.html#avro-compatibility-level>`_:

* ``FORWARD``: consumers using the latest registered schema can read data written by producers using the new schema

> * ``FORWARD_TRANSITIVE``: consumers using all previousely registered schemas can read data written by producers using the new schema

Reviewer 6: nit: `all` -> `any` ?

* ``BACKWARD``: consumers using the new schema can read data written by producers using the latest registered schema

> * ``BACKWARD_TRANSITIVE``: consumers using the new schema can read data written by producers using all previously registered schemas

Reviewer 6: nit: `all` -> `any` ?

Author: Ack

* ``FULL``: the new schema is forward and backward compatible with the latest registered schema
* ``FULL_TRANSITIVE``: the new schema is forward and backward compatible with all previously registered schemas
* ``NONE``: schema compatibility checks are disabled

By default, |sr| is configured for ``BACKWARD`` compatibility.

> You can change this globally or per subject, but for the remainder of this tutorial, leave the default compatibility level to `backward`.

Reviewer 6: nit: `we leave` ?

Author: No "we" in the tutorial ;)

Failing Compatibility Checks
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> |sr| checks compatibility as schemas evolve to keep the producer-consumer contract.

Reviewer 6: nit `contract [in takt].` ?

Reviewer: typo: `intact`

Author: I changed this to:

`|sr| checks compatibility as schemas evolve to uphold the producer-consumer contract.`

Schema evolution requires compatibility checks to ensure that the producer-consumer contract is not broken. 
This is where |sr-long| helps: it provides centralized schema management and compatibility checks as schemas evolve.

For a more in-depth understanding of the benefits of Avro and |sr|, refer to the following resources:

* `Why Avro For Kafka Data <https://www.confluent.io/blog/avro-kafka-data/>`_
* `Yes, Virginia, You Really Do Need a Schema Registry <https://www.confluent.io/blog/schema-registry-kafka-stream-processing-yes-virginia-you-really-need-one/>`_

Target Audience
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The target audience is a developer writing Kafka streaming applications, who wants to build a robust application leveraging Avro data and |sr-long|.

This tutorial is not meant to cover the operational aspects of running the |sr| service. For production deployments of |sr-long|, refer to :ref:`Schema Registry Operations<schemaregistry_operations>`.

Before You Begin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Prerequisites
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Before proceeding with this tutorial

#. Verify have installed on your local machine:

   * Java 1.8 to run |cp|
   * Maven to compile the client Java code

>    * `jq` tool to nicely format the results from querying the |sr| REST endpoint

Reviewer: I think `jq` needs double-ticks

Author: Ack

#. Use the :ref:`quickstart` to bring up |cp|. With a single-line command, you can have running on your local machine a basic Kafka cluster with |sr-long| and other services.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

>       $ confluent start

Reviewer: minor: Perhaps this should only go as far as `confluent start shchema-registry`? Since Connect, REST, KSQL, and C3 (1) aren't being used for this tutorial (2) host machine might be memory-strained to start _everything_. 

Thoughts?

Author: @cricket007 

The main to start the whole stack is for Control Center -- it has integration with Schema Registry.  For users who like UIs, Control Center is a great place to see the schema and inspect topics with deserialized Avro-data.  In the tutorial, there's even a screenshot from the UI.  

The second reason to keep it as is: it educate users on Confluent CLI and specifically that it can start all the services in the stack including Connect, REST, KSQL.  We've heard feedback from our users that starting individual Kafka services is hard, so this is a means to educate users that this CLI is available.

Your point about memory constraints is well-taken, but we find this less and less as user host machines become more and more performant over time.

.. _schema_registry_tutorial_definition:

Schema Definition
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first thing developers need to do is agree on a basic schema for data.
Client applications form a contract: producers will write data in a schema and consumers will be able to read that data.
Of course, applications can use many schemas for many topics, but in this tutorial you will look at one.

Consider the `original Payment schema <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/DEVX-380/clients/avro/src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment.avsc>`_:

.. sourcecode:: json

   $ cat src/main/resources/avro/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/Payment.avsc
   {"namespace": "io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro",
    "type": "record",
    "name": "Payment",
    "fields": [
        {"name": "id", "type": "string"},
        {"name": "amount", "type": "double"}
    ]
   }

Let's break down what this schema defines

* ``namespace``: a fully qualified name that avoids schema naming conflicts

> * ``type``: `Avro data type <https://avro.apache.org/docs/1.8.1/spec.html#schemas>`_, one of `record`, `enum, `union`, `array`, `map`, `fixed`

Reviewer: missing end \` on `enum`. Also, think these all should be double-ticked

Author: Ack

   props.put(AbstractKafkaAvroSerDeConfig.SCHEMA_REGISTRY_URL_CONFIG, schemaRegistryUrl);
   ...

   ...
   KafkaProducer<String, Payment> producer = new KafkaProducer<String, Payment>(props));
   final Payment payment = new Payment(orderId, 1000.00d);
   final ProducerRecord<String, Payment> record = new ProducerRecord<String, Payment>(TOPIC, payment.getId().toString(), payment);
   producer.send(record);
   ...

For a full Java producer example, refer to `the producer example <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/5.0.0-post/clients/avro/src/main/java/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/ProducerExample.java>`_.
Because the `pom.xml` includes ``avro-maven-plugin``, the `Payment` class is automatically generated during compile.
To run this producer, first compile the project and then run ``ProducerExample``.

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ mvn clean compile package
   $ mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro.ProducerExample

You should see:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   ...
   Successfully produced 10 messages to a topic called transactions
   ...

Java Consumers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Java applications that have Kafka consumers using Avro require `pom.xml` files to include:

Reviewer: \`\`pom.xml\`\`

* `version`: the schema version for this subject, which starts at 1 for each subject
* `id`: the globally unique schema version id, unique across all schemas in all subjects
* `schema`: the structure that defines the schema format

The schema is identical to the :ref:`schema file defined for Java client applications<schema_registry_tutorial_definition>`.
Notice in the output above, the schema is escaped JSON, i.e., the double quotes are preceded with backslashes.

Based on the schema id, you can also retrieve the associated schema by querying |sr| REST endpoint:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ curl --silent -X GET http://localhost:8081/schemas/ids/1 | jq .
   {
     "schema": "{\"type\":\"record\",\"name\":\"Payment\",\"namespace\":\"io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro\",\"fields\":[{\"name\":\"id\",\"type\":\"string\"},{\"name\":\"amount\",\"type\":\"double\"}]}"
   }

If you are using |c3|, you can view the topic schema easily from the UI:

.. figure:: c3-schema-transactions.png
    :align: center

Schema IDs in Messages
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Integration with |sr-long| means that Kafka messages do not need to be written with the entire Avro schema.

> Instead, Kafka messages are written with the schema _id_.

Reviewer: The underscores here were taken literally on the staging server. Not sure if that should actually be italiziced or bold?

   .. note::

      If you only want to start |zk|, Kafka, and |sr|, type `confluent start schema-registry`

#. Clone the |cp| `examples <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples>`_ repo from GitHub and work in the `clients/avro/` subdirectory, which provides the sample code you will compile and run in this tutorial.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

      $ git clone https://github.com/confluentinc/examples.git
      $ cd examples/clients/avro
   

.. _schema_registry_tutorial_definition:

Terminology
^^^^^^^^^^^

First let us levelset on terminology: what is a `topic` versus a `schema` versus a `subject`.

A Kafka `topic` contains messages, and each message is a key-value pair.
Either the message key or the message value, or both, can be serialized as Avro.
A `schema` defines the structure of the Avro data format.
The Kafka topic name can be independent of the schema name.
By default, |sr| defines a scope in which schemas for that Kafka topic can evolve, and that scope is the `subject`.

As a practical example, let's say a retail business is streaming transactions in a Kafka topic called `transactions`.
A producer is writing data with a schema `Payment` to that Kafka topic.

> If the producer is serializing the message value as Avro, |sr| has a subject called `transactions-value`.

Author: Ack

   final Payment payment = new Payment(orderId, 1000.00d);
   final ProducerRecord<String, Payment> record = new ProducerRecord<String, Payment>(TOPIC, payment.getId().toString(), payment);
   producer.send(record);
   ...

For a full Java producer example, refer to `the producer example <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples/blob/5.0.0-post/clients/avro/src/main/java/io/confluent/examples/clients/basicavro/ProducerExample.java>`_.
Because the `pom.xml` includes ``avro-maven-plugin``, the `Payment` class is automatically generated during compile.
To run this producer, first compile the project and then run ``ProducerExample``.

.. sourcecode:: bash

   $ mvn clean compile package
   $ mvn exec:java -Dexec.mainClass=io.confluent.examples.clients.basicavro.ProducerExample

You should see:

.. sourcecode:: bash

   ...
   Successfully produced 10 messages to a topic called transactions
   ...

Java Consumers
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Within the application, Java consumers need to configure the Avro deserializer for the Kafka value (or Kafka key) and URL to |sr-long|.
Then the consumer can read records where the Kafka value is of `Payment` class.

> To ensure that the object is deserialized using the application's code-generated `Payment` class, configure the deserializer to use Avro `SpecificRecord`, i.e., ``SPECIFIC_AVRO_READER_CONFIG`` should be set to _true_.

Author: Ack
